Typescript conversion, lint, tests, docs, examples, GitHub Actions, etc (#29)
emostar/express-graceful-exit: README.md

# express-graceful-exit

> Gracefully run last [Express](http://expressjs.com/) requests and respond with `Connection: close` response headers while optionally still allowing new connections for a time (e.g. for readiness probes) while shutting down your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tl;dr - Gracefully handle final requests while your Express app shuts down.

Schedule app shutdown using a flexible set of options, while continuing to run last [Express](http://expressjs.com/) requests. Those last responses include `Connection: close` headers while optionally allowing new connections for a time (e.g. for readiness probes) while shutting down the application.
```

- [Validating Graceful Shutdown](#validating-graceful-shutdown)
  - [Testing Node.js Directly](#testing-nodejs-directly)
  - [Testing with `docker-compose`](#testing-with-docker-compose)
  - [Testing with `docker`](#testing-with-docker)
  - [Troubleshooting Graceful Shutdown Problems](#troubleshooting-graceful-shutdown-problems)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [middleware](#middleware)
  - [gracefulExitHandler](#gracefulexithandler)
  - [trackConnections](#trackconnections)
- [Options](#options)
  - [Middleware](#middleware-1)
  - [Exit Handler](#exit-handler)
- [Overview of Module Operation](#overview-of-module-operation)
- [Zero Downtime Deploys](#zero-downtime-deploys)
- [Compatibility](#compatibility)
  - [v1.0.0 is backwards compatible with v0.x.x, with these notes:](#v100-is-backwards-compatible-with-v0xx-with-these-notes)
  - [v0.X.X versions are backwards API compatible, with these minor behavior changes:](#v0xx-versions-are-backwards-api-compatible-with-these-minor-behavior-changes)
- [Contributors](#contributors)

# Why Graceful Shutdown

> Graceful shutdown is necessary if your infrastructure needs your application to exit itself to avoid terminating in-flight requests and generating errors / alarms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Graceful shutdown helps your application manage its own exit process, to complete in-flight requests and avoid error responses, dropped requests and/or error alarms.
```
Rewriting for concision and folks less fluent in English.

  - Waiting for the maximum response time (e.g. `server.timeout`) of one request will essentially guarantee that an instance has no further incoming connections
  - This is not foolproof though as the choice of whether to use non-keep-alive connections is left to the client - Express would have to be configured with middleware to send a `connection: close` response header to every request, even those using `HTTP/1.1` or specifically sending a `connection: keep-alive` request header
- Infrastructures that just wait a really long time for applications and clients that use HTTP/1.1 keep-alive connections
  - An instance targeted for stopping is removed from the healthy instance pool, say, 30 minutes before the instance is to be stopped
  - Simply waiting 30 minutes may result in that instance having no further incoming connections, but there is no guarantee of that
  - It is possible for sockets to remain open indefintely so long as they continue to receive and respond to requests before either `server.timeout` or 1server.keepAliveTimeout` have expired

>   - This method may seem like it works, but it is never guaranteed to work

Reviewer: These sections are fabulous, but really need to be tl;dr'd, moved after the main docs, and/or moved to a linked page or file dedicated to this topic.

Most people would be intimidated by this mass of data that isn't yet telling them how to use the module.

1. Once the server fully disconnects or the hard exit timer runs
   1. If all existing connections have run a request and/or disconnected, the exit handler returns `0`
   1. OR if any connections remain after `hardExitTimeout` ms, the handler returns `1`
1. In either case, if `exitProcess` is set to true the hard exit handler waits `exitDelay` ms and calls `process.exit(x)`, this allows the logger time to flush and the app's callback to complete, if any

# Zero Downtime Deploys

This module handles the difficult work of gracefully closing sockets and the Express server in response to a developer choosing to initiate that process. It is possible and simple to install signal handlers, such as `SIGTERM` for Docker's default `STOPSIGNAL` without any additional dependencies and [src/examples/index.ts](src/examples/index.ts) shows how to accomplish this. Some prefer using another module to register signal handlers; this is fine, but care must be taken to ensure that the additional module does not add it's own shutdown timeouts that conflict with the timeouts set in `express-graceful-exit`.

# Compatibility

> ## v1.0.0 is backwards compatible with v0.x.x, with these notes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## v1.0.0 is mostly backwards compatible with v0.x.x, with these breaking changes:
```

> 1. v1.0.0 Overall backwards compatible with the exception of uses cases that were passing `force: true` and calling `init` - In that one case `init` must be changed to `trackConnections` and both `server` and `app` must be passed to it
> 1. v1.0.0 renames `init` to `trackConnections` and requires passing both the Express `server` and `app` - Note that `trackConnections` should ONLY be called if `force`/`destroySocketsOnHardExit` is `true` as the list of Express sockets is not necessary in any other case - As the usage of `init` is rarely necessary, calling `init` will log an error advising to call `trackConnections` instead and continue
> 1. v1.0.0 renames `suicideTimeout` to `hardExitTimeout`. Values passed via `suicideTimeout` will be copied over top of `hardExitTimeout`
> 1. v1.0.0 renames `force` to `destroySocketsOnHardExit`. Values passed via `force` will be copied over top of `destroySocketsOnHardExit`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Apps that pass in `force: true` and call `init()` must change `init` to `trackConnections` and pass in both `server` and `app`
1. `init()` renamed to `trackConnections()` and requires passing both the Express `server` and `app` - Note that `trackConnections` should ONLY be called if `force`/`destroySocketsOnHardExit` is `true` as the list of Express sockets is not necessary in any other case - Calling `init` will log an error advising to call `trackConnections` instead and continue without error.
1. `suicideTimeout` option deprecated, replaced by `hardExitTimeout`. Either option works for now, but a future version (2.0?) will drop the `suicideTimeout` property.
1. `force` option deprecated, replaced by `destroySocketsOnHardExit`. Either option works for now, but a future version (2.0?) will drop the `force` property.
```

## v0.X.X versions are backwards API compatible, with these minor behavior changes:

1. After exit was triggered, incoming requests were mismanaged prior to v0.5.0. <br> As of v0.5.0 incoming requests are dropped cleanly by default, with new options such as responding with a custom error and/or performing one last request per connection.
1. Process exit is called in a `setTimeout` block from v0.2.0 forward, so the timing is slightly different between v0.1.0 to v0.2.x+.

# Contributors

- Original Author: [Jon Keating](http://twitter.com/emostar)
  - This module was originally developed for Frafty (formerly www.frafty.com), a Daily Fantasy Sports site.
- Maintainer: [Ivo Havener](https://github.com/ivolucien)

> - Contributor: [Harold Hunt](https://github.com/huntharo)

Reviewer: :+1:
